Add a troubleshooting section for AddDefaultTypes (#2704)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/dotnet/troubleshooting.txt

worker thread, call the ``Write()`` method instead of ``WriteAsync()``.

For more information, see :ref:`Asynchronous Writes <dotnet-async-writes>`.

Resolving a 'AddDefaultTypes should be called before creating a Realm instance' Exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You may see a ``System.NotSupportedException`` with the message

> "AddDefaultTypes should be called before creating a Realm instance". This typically

Author: The other cases would be a bug in the SDK or the user calling the method explicitly.

> "AddDefaultTypes should be called before creating a Realm instance". This typically

Reviewer: Since we don't typically cover user errors and/or SDK bugs in troubleshooting, let's remove the "typically".

happens when you have multiple projects containing Realm models and you open a Realm
instance before all of them have been loaded in memory.

Explanation of the causes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The .NET assembly loader is a lazy one, so will only load assemblies when the types defined
in them are needed. At the same time, Realm relies on the
`module initializer <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/proposals/csharp-9.0/module-initializers>`_
to register the assembly types in the default schema. When you first open a Realm without

> specifying the schema, the default schema gets locked in and attempts to modify it will results

Reviewer: to modify what?

Author: "the default schema" - I can see I have a typo in `results` - that should have been `result`, but open for suggestions on how to reword this.

Author: I reworded it to clarify - can you see if that looks better?

> The .NET assembly loader is a lazy one, so will only load assemblies when the types defined
> in them are needed. At the same time, Realm relies on the
> `module initializer <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/proposals/csharp-9.0/module-initializers>`_
> to register the assembly types in the default schema. When you first open a Realm without
> specifying the schema, the default schema gets locked in and attempts to modify it will results
> in the exception above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET uses lazy loading to improve performance. An assembly is not loaded until one or more of the types it contains is needed. However, Realm relies on the `module initializer <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/proposals/csharp-9.0/module-initializers>`_ to register all of the types in its default schema. When you first open a realm, the default schema gets locked, and any attempt to modify the realm will results in the exception above.
```

> How to resolve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolution
```

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: Can't this also be resoled by placing your models in the same assembly as the realm?

Author: Yeah, I guess that's also an option, though it's likely not always available.

> The easiest way to resolve this is to force load the assembly that contains your models prior
> to opening the Realm instance. This can be done by referencing any of the types defined in that
> assembly - for example, you can add a dummy void method that gets invoked as soon as your app
> is loaded.
> 
>   .. code-block:: csharp
> 
>       // In your models assembly
>       public static class MyAssemblyLoader
>       {
>           public static void LoadMe() {}
>       }
> 
>       // In your app
>       public void Initialize()
>       {
>           MyAssemblyLoader.LoadMe();
>       }
> 
> Alternatively, you can explicitly specify the Realm schema instead of relying on the default
> schema discovery:
> 
>   .. code-block:: csharp
> 
>       var config = new RealmConfiguration
>       {
>           Schema = new[] { typeof(Person), typeof(Company), ... }
>       }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 3 ways to resolve this issue. 
1. You can place your realm models in the same assembly as your realm.
2. You can pre-load the assembly that contains your realm objects by creating a static method on the assembly, and then call that method from your app code:
    
    .. code-block:: csharp
      // In your models assembly
      public static class MyAssemblyLoader
      {
          public static void LoadMe() {}
      }
      // In your app
      public void Initialize()
      {
          MyAssemblyLoader.LoadMe();
      }
    
3. You can explicitly specify the Realm schema when initializing the realm:
    .. code-block:: csharp
       var config = new RealmConfiguration
       {
           Schema = new[] { typeof(Person), typeof(Company), ... }
       }
```
